The Hobbit is a tale of high adventure, undertaken by a
company of dwarves, in search of dragon-guarded gold.
A reluctant partner in this perilous quest is Bilbo Baggins,
a comfort-loving, unambitious hobbit, who surprises even
himself by his resourcefulness and his skill as a burglar.
Encounters with trolls, goblins, dwarves, elves and
giant spiders, conversations with the dragon, Smaug the
Magnificent, and a rather unwilling presence at the Battle
of the Five Armies are some of the adventures that befall
Bilbo. But there are lighter moments as well: good
fellowship, welcome meals, laughter and song.
Bilbo Baggins has taken his place among the ranks of
the immortals of children’s fiction. Written for Professor
Tolkien’s own children, The Hobbit met with instant
acclaim when published. It is a complete and marvellous
tale in itself, but it also forms a prelude to The Lord of the
Rings.
‘One of the most influential books of our generation’
The Times
The Hobbit was first published in September 1937. Its
1951 second edition (fifth impression) contains a
significantly revised portion of Chapter V, “Riddles in the
Dark,” which brings the story of The Hobbit more in line
with its sequel, The Lord of the Rings, then in progress.
Tolkien made some further revisions to the American
edition published by Ballantine Books in February 1966,
and to the British third edition (sixteenth impression)
published by George Allen & Unwin later that same year.
For the 1995 British hardcover edition, published by
HarperCollins, the text of The Hobbit was entered into
word-processing files, and a number of further
corrections of misprints and errors were made. Since
then, various editions of The Hobbit have been generated
from that computerized text file. For the present text, that
file has been compared again, line by line, with the earlier
editions, and a number of further corrections have been
made to present a text that, as closely as possible,
represents Tolkien’s final intended form.
Readers interested in details of the changes made at
various times to the text of The Hobbit are referred to
Appendix A, “Textual and Revisional Notes,” of The
Annotated Hobbit (1988), and J. R. R. Tolkien: A
Descriptive Bibliography by Wayne G. Hammond, with
the assistance of Douglas A. Anderson (1993